In the country named India, in the modern day state of Uttar Pradesh stands a little town near the river Yamuna. it is known as - Mathura, a holy city. it is the birthplace of Lord Krishna.

GopalNearly 5,000 years ago, Mathura was under the rule of a tyrannical king named Kamsa. Kamsa was so greedy and cunning that he not even spared his father Ugrasena; having imprisoned him kamsa declared himself to be the King of Mathura. Ugrasena was a nice ruler, and Kamsa was just the opposite. It was a trying time for the commoners of Mathura to put up with Kamsa's extravagance and unfair rule. above all this, Kamsa locked his horns time and again with the rulers of the Yadu dynasty which led to frequent wars and troubled the peace-loving citizens of Mathura.

But soon a happy news came. Crown princess Devaki was getting married to King Vasudev of the Yadus. The Mathura citizens welcomed the wedding, for it surely meant that Kamsa’s frequent wars with the Yadu dynasty would come to an end.

Soon the much-awaited day arrived. Mathura wore a festive look. Everyone was in festive spirits. Even the usually desolate citizens of Mathura were looking happy. and that was a great thing to see, since the people of Mathura did not smile often. How cold they, with such an awful king like Kamsa to guide them.

Soon, Devaki was married to King Vasudev. Kamsa, cunning as he was, thought, “Now, Vasudev’s kingdom is as good as mine”.

After the wedding, he decided to drive the royal couple home himself to shower on them a kingly courtesy as was prevalent in those days. But it so happened that as soon as Kamsa took the reins of the wedding chariot, a divine voice thundered from the sky,” Evil Kamsa, you don’t know it. But know now that by giving Devaki’s hand to Vasudev, you have signed your own death warrant. The eighth son born to Vasudev and Devaki will kill you!”

Hearing this, Kamsa froze with fear. But then he became angry. He immediately thought of killing Devaki for he thought, “How can a child be born when the mother is dead?” So he drew out his sword and raised it to kill Devaki.

King Vasudev was horrified at this cruelty and fell on his knees. “O Kamsa..” he begged, “…please don’t kill your sister. I shall personally surrender to you all the children she gives birth to, so that the voice of the Oracle doesn’t come true.”

The evil king vacillated. “Then you will live in my palace as prisoners,” he declared and Vasudev had no choice than accepting his verdict. Kamsa smiled happily. The one person he loved in the whole wide world was his sister and he decided to spare her life. He was content at the thought that the situation was under his control. After all, he was not going to let her children live, was he?

Kamsa confined Devaki and her husband King Vasudev in the palace dungeons and kept them under constant watch. Every time Devaki gave birth to a child in the dungeons, Kamsa destroyed the child. In this manner, he killed seven children born to Devaki. He turned a deaf ear to all the heart- rending cries of his sister.

Nine years passed before Devaki got pregnant for the eighth time. Kamsa, troubled by the fear of his possible death, lost his appetite and slept poorly at night. But he waited for the birth of his nemesis with murderous thoughts.

In the palace dungeons, Vasudev was trying his best to console his wife, but Devaki was terrified.” My eighth child will be born in a day,” she wailed. “And my cruel brother will kill this one too. Oh mighty Gods, please save my child!”

Shri KrishnaThe night soon ended and the next day arrived. Devaki spent most of the day in tears. Dusk gave way to a terrible night as had not been seen earlier in Mathura. It seemed that the whole world understood Devaki’s mind and joined her in mourning for the unborn child. The winds howled angrily and skies seemed to have split apart to pour wrathful rains.

Suddenly there was pin drop silence. And then it was broken by the sound of the cry of a divine child. It was of the eighth child, a son, born to Queen Devaki at midnight in the prison.Ganesh being the elder son, was full of patience and wisdom. Karthik, on the other hand, was impish and playful. But both of them were intelligent and powerful.

The two brothers had much difference in their physique. While Ganesh had a massive body with a big belly and an elephant's head, young Karthik was a beautiful boy with strong limbs. They were kind to everybody and were loved by all.

Lord Shiva and Goddess Parvathi loved their two children and they in turn were devoted to their parents. The Devas (deities) were pleased with the lovely divine children and they worshipped them.

But one day, as the Devas talked about the qualities of the brothers, a doubt arose in the mind of one of them.
"Who is the wiser of the two brothers?" he asked the others "Ganesh or Karthik?"

Soon this doubt spread to all the Devas. All of them were talking and expressing their opinion about the matter. But no one could surely decide upon the matter. As they racked their brains to solve the issue, suddenly, a Deva got an idea.

“I know whom to ask!”, said he. As others looked at him curiously, he continued, "Lord Brahma. He is the Creator of the world. He should know the answer, so let's ask him! He can surely solve this doubt."
Without any more delay, the Devas rushed to Brahma and asked their Creator about their doubt. Brahma was surprised to see all the deities, together.

"Such a pleasant surprise! What brings you here?"

The Devas told Brahma about their doubt. "O lord Brahma, who is the wiser brother?", asked they, "Ganesh or Karthik?"

"Alas, I do not know!" replied Brahma. "I am the creator of mankind, not divine beings. Ganesh and Karthik were born to the celestial gods Shiva and Parvathi."

The Devas were disappointed. Even the Brahma did not know! Then they would not be able to have an answer, after all.

Looking at their glum faces, Lord Brahma decided to help them. "It is true that I do not know who is the wiser of the two young Gods", he thought. "But I can probably find it out with the help of my son Narada".

Narada, the son of Lord Brahma, was a mischievous sage who was famous for creating disputes. Wherever he went, he created trouble.

But if he got away with all his pranks and without getting cursed it was only because the trouble he caused usually ended on a happy note.

"Narada, help the Devas. Find the answer to their question," said Brahma after explaining the problem.
"Certainly, Father," replied Narada, and his eyes twinkled naughtily, smelling an opportunity to play a prank.

Using his magical powers Narada swiftly flew over the white mountains of Kailash and, in no time, arrived at the divine abode of Shiva and Parvathi. He was warmly welcomed by the heavenly couple.

Siva and Parvathi"0 Shive, Saviour of the Universe!, O Devi Parvathi !" Narada praised the lord. "I thank you for your warm welcome. It is indeed a pleasant joy and an honour to see you both together as the Divine couple".

Everyone knew about Narada's mischievous nature. Shiva understood that Narada was up to some mischief. "Now tell us the truth. I can sense some mischief brewing in your mind. What is the prank you are planning to play on us?" he said jokingly.

Narada pretended to be hurt. "You greatly insult me, Lord Shiva! I have just come here to give you a gift," he said in a sorrowful voice.

"A gift for me? What is it Narada?", asked Lord Shiva. Narada, hearing the eagerness in Shiva's voice smiled to himself in amusement. He produced a golden mango and gave it to the Lord.

"A mango!" exclaimed Shiva. "Now don't say you travelled all the way here to give me this fruit."

"It is no ordinary fruit, my Lord," Narada replied. "The taste of this fruit is said to be sweeter than nectar. This is the divine fruit of knowledge that bestows eternal wisdom to those who eat it.

"Is it so?" asked Shiva, looking at the mango. He then asked his wife Parvathi to have a bite.

"No, stop!" cried Narada. "What are you doing?"

Lord Shiva looked at Narada curiously. "Why? Do you want me to eat it without letting Parvathi taste it? I am going to share it with her". Saying so, he turned to share the fruit with his wife, Goddess Parvathi.

Narada shook his head in disagreement. "That cannot be done, Lord Shiva. It is a magical fruit, blessed by the sages and Devas. It is not possible to cut the mango into pieces. It should be eaten by a single person as a whole fruit".

The divine couple looked at each other. They were confused. Then Lord Shiva shrugged. "If that is the case, let my better half have this fruit. Here Parvathi, you can have this whole mango," he said, offering the mango to his wife.

Parvathi was surprised. "Oh no, I don't want it! You are my husband. How can I eat it without you having a taste of it?" she refused.

Both Lord Shiva and Narada requested her to eat the fruit but Parvathi steadily declined. "Instead, let one of our children have the fruit," she suggested.

"But, how is that possible?" asked Narada slyly. "There is one fruit and two children. Who should be given the fruit - Ganesh or Karthik?"

While the elders were talking, Ganesh and Karthik appeared in Kailash. They saw that their parents and Sage Narada were having some serious talk on something. Then Karthik noticed something yellow and round in Narada's hand.

“What is Uncle Narada having in his hand ?” Karthik asked to Ganesh. Ganesh was equally curious.

“ This is a magical mango, Karthik, "Narada replied, as he heard Karthik's question. "I gave it to your Father but he wanted your Mother to eat it. But she won't have it. She wants to give it to one of you".

"A magical mango? I love mangoes!", shouted Karthik, "I want it! I want it!".

"No, no, it should come to me. I love mangoes too! I'm the eldest son and the right one to eat the fruit of knowledge," argued Ganesh. Soon the brothers started fighting.

The divine parents were perplexed. This is nothing but a mountain out of a molehill. Lord Shiva looked at Narada. "So this is why you came to Kailash! I knew it! I knew there was something in your mind. Well done Narada, you have finally played the trick. This is why you came here. But now that you have created trouble, please solve it. You decide to whom the mango should go to," he said firmly.

Narada was delighted that his plan was working so well. "Why don't we could have a competition to settle the matter?" he said with a twinkle in his eye.

"The children agreed to Narada’s suggestion. Lord Shiva thought over the matter.

"All right, then." said he, "We'll have a contest. Whoever of you goes around the world three times and returns first will get the fruit ," he said to his children.

Hearing this, Karthik immediately mounted his vehicle, the peacock. His brother Ganesh was slow and fat. Karthik laughed to himself in glee. He was very certain that he would win.

Ganesh too, understood that his vehicle, the mouse, could not compete with the peacock's speed. So he thought for a moment. Suddenly, he got an idea. Ganesh smiled to himself.

Karthik flew around the world stopping at all temples and sacred spots on the way and offering his prayers. To his astonishment, he found Ganesh at every major stop. Karthik was puzzled. How did Ganesh manage to be so fast?

The reason was the razor-sharp intelligence and the great wisdom of Ganesh. Back in Kailash, Ganesh remembered that his parents Shiva and Parvathi represented the entire universe. Without delay, the young elephant-headed god walked around his parents with great devotion, folding his hands.

"Why are you circling us Ganesh?" asked Lord Shiva.

Shiva, Parvathi and Ganesh"I'm your son and to me, you two make up my whole world. Why should I go further to win the contest?" replied Ganesh.

Shiva was pleased with his elder son's smart answer and gave the magical fruit to him.

When Karthik returned after his voyage, he understood what had happened and accepted the superiority of his clever brother Ganesh. The Devas found the answer to their doubt. They praised and blessed Ganesh.

Narada chuckled to himself. His father had praised him too. So did the Devas.


As soon the child was born, the prison was filled with a dazzling, blinding light. Devaki fainted at the sight and Vasudev was mesmerized. The light converged into a sphere and the same voice of the Oracle that scared Kamsa, now spoke to Vasudev:

“ Take this child across the River Yamuna to the Gokul kingdom, ruled by your friend King Nanda. His wife Queen Yashoda has just given birth to a daughter. Exchange your son for this girl child and return to the prison immediately, before anyone comes to know about the birth of this child.”

Without a word, he new father picked up his son to follow the Oracle’s advice. He felt grieved to separate the newborn child from his mother but he knew that there was no other way he could save his son.

Vasudev also felt very doubtful. There were a hundred soldiers waiting outside. And it was a dark, fearsome night. How could he go out, unnoticed and unscathed?

But what he saw astonished him greatly. All his questions were answered one by one. As he approached the gate with the child in his arms, the prison doors opened automatically. He came out slowly to find to his utter surprise that all the guards were in a state of hypnotic sleep.

Vasudev left Mathura and soon approached the banks of the Yamuna river. The river seemed to be boiling white and seething with anger, due to fierce winds and rain. It looked alive and ready to devour the first person to set foot in it!

The Father looked at his the face of his infant child and hesitated in doubt. As if the river sensed his fear, the boiling subsided. But he had to proceed nonetheless. Then a miracle happened. As soon as the feet of Lord immersed in the river, the flow became normal and Yamuna made way for the Lord. To his amazement, Vasudev saw a huge black snake raising its head from the water behind him. He was scared out of his wits at first, but soon realized that it meant no harm when he saw the serpent positioning its hood like an umbrella to save the new born baby from rain. This snake was none other than Sheshnag, the Snake-God, who is known to be the roofing canopy of Lord Vishnu. It is mentioned in the texts that Krishna was the eighth incarnation of Lord Vishnu.

Vasudev did not delay any further and proceeded in waist-deep water with much difficulty. But in the end, not entirely believing his eyes, Vasudev was able to cross the opposite bank of the river safely and entered the village of Gokul.

Flute of Shri KrishnaIt was past midnight and the people of Gokul were fast asleep. Thus, Vasudev had no trouble in entering the palace of king Nanda, for the palace doors were, as always, wide open. Nanda, unlike Kamsa, was a fair king and the people under his reign didn't fear for intruders or thieves in the night.

Vasudev, by this time, had some idea that his child is really someone special, it was a divine child. All his fears vanished for he understood that when he has come this far, he will surely be able to complete the rest of his journey. And that was what happened.

In no time, Vasudev reached his friend’s palace. Treading softly, Vasudev entered queen Yashoda's quarters. She was sleeping peacefully in her bed and her baby girl beside her was awake, staring at the door. It was almost as if she was expecting him to come!

Vasudev scooped Yashoda's baby girl in his other arm and placed his son in the empty space next to Yashoda. With tears in his eyes, Vasudev kissed his son’s forehead. "Goodbye, my son," he whispered. Then, without looking back, he left Gokul with Nanda's daughter in his arms.

With Sheshnag assisting him like before, Vasudev returned to the prison with the girl-child. He entered his dark cell and laid the baby by Devaki's side. As soon as the child felt the hard floor on her back, she opened her mouth and cried lustily.

Claannnk!!! The prison doors closed. The guards suddenly awoke from their sleep and became aware that a baby was born. They rushed to Kamsa to deliver him the news. The eighth child, slayer of Kamsa, was born!

The evil King was both pleased and afraid to hear of the birth of his nephew. He was pleased that he could finally kill the eighth child of his sister and he was also afraid that he might not be able to do so.

But putting away all his fears, he rushed to the palace dungeons to execute the child who was said to be his slayer. He reached the dungeons in great anger. The palace guards trembled at his enraged face. Kamsa entered the cell where his sister and her husband lived for the past nine years.

"Where is he?" he roared at the now-awake Devaki. "Where's my slayer?"

Devaki had regained her consciousness only after Vasudev switched the babies and so, she thought that her eighth child was a daughter. She appealed to her brother, "O Kamsa, my brother- my eighth child is a girl, and not the son that the Oracle warned you about. How can she harm you? There is no way she can. Please let your only niece live!"

Kamsa, as always, ignored her cries. He loved his life more than anything else in the world. Love for his life had clouded his common sense and he forgot the Oracle's warning about his slayer being a boy. In blind rage, Kamsa snatched the baby girl from Devaki's lap, and hurled the child against the prison wall.

But this time the baby did not die; instead, she flew up and for a second remained suspended in the air to the utter amazement of everyone present there. Then the prison was filled once again with a blinding light. Kamsa covered his face from the intensity of the light. As the light subsided, they realised that the child had changed into a ferocious Goddess!

She rose above Kamsa's head as the eight-armed form of Goddess Durga. Dressed in shining garments and dazzling jewels, she looked terrible and divine at the same time.

The Goddess looked in contempt and pity at the bewildered Kamsa. She said, "Foolish Kamsa, there is no force on Heaven and earth that can kill me. So how can you, wretched creature? You even if you could, you would have gained nothing by killing me. For your slayer is already born! He is now well and alive in a safe place. And one day, he will come in search of you and kill you! You can’t resist him, no matter how hard you try!"

Saying so, she disappeared, leaving behind a terror-stricken Kamsa. Kamsa felt humiliated by the turn of events. In his confusion, he freed Vasudev and Devaki from prison.

Vasudev then narrated what happened on that night to his wife. Devaki, though sad at her separation from her son, was happy for the baby. Both of them prayed to God that her son should not fall into the clutches of his evil uncle Kamsa.

Meanwhile, there was great rejoicing in Gokul. The cowherd tribes of Gokul were smiling from ear to ear. A new baby boy was born to their loved King Nanda ! The streets were swept clean and the houses were decorated with colors, streamers and fragrant flowers. The whole place wore a festive look.

Everyone in the household of King Nanda was in a joyous mood. Nanda named the child Krishna. Everybody in Gokul danced with joy and flocked to Nanda's house to see the baby boy and to offer gifts.

But it did not escape anyone's notice that the child was like no ordinary child. His skin had a dark - blue color as is seen in a cloud filled with water during the monsoon season. His eyes twinkled merrily. He never cried and always had a smile for everyone.

Yashoda felt very proud. "Ah my son!" she crooned lovingly at Little Krishna . “my cute little son! You are surely going to be pampered and spoiled by us!”.

In this way was born Lord Krishna, the supreme God who is the creator of everyone. He was born to save everyone from the terrible tyrants like Kamsa. In his boyhood, he became the cynosure of all eyes- he won the hearts of all men and women, wherever he went. And with his brother Balaram, he later went back to Mathura and killed Kamsa. But that, as people say… is another story.

It was a peaceful day in the woods. Now and then, a gentle wind blew through the fresh, green leaves of the majestic trees as if, playing merrily with them. Cuckoo birds chirped cheerfully on the branches of the huge peepal trees. Butterflies chased each other merrily and little crickets were jumping here and there. Mother Nature seemed to be laughing and enjoying the frolics of her children.

Kalia,the deadly snake & srikrishna"Sssssss...." here we come!!!" suddenly hissed an evil voice, destroying the mirth and merriment all around.

Many-hooded Kalia and his brood slowly emerged from their hiding place. They were venomous beings who poisoned the very ground they slithered on. As they moved now, the grass under them turned black and the trees they passed lost their colour.
Kalia surveyed the landscape before him. "What better place to stay with my family?" he thought and grinned.

"Halt!" he ordered his family. "This is our new home!"

"No!" cried the wind, "Don't do this". "I can't breathe!" lamented a shocked peepal tree. Even the cuckoo birds on the tree branches just reeled over and died, as the air around the area turned toxic.

And so the eastern part of the Yamuna River, next to the village of Brindavan, began to slowly die.

The morning sun shone over Brindavan. It was like any other day. Everyone went about their usual business. The village primarily consisted of the cow-herd tribes. They were going out to graze their cows in the nearby fields and vales. Suddenly somebody screamed in village chief Nanda's home. Everyone present nearby rushed to the place. But no one could enter inside. There were anxious whispering among the crowd that gathered outside Nanda's home. Who was it?

It was Yashoda, Nanda's wife. She sat on the bed, her body shaking in fear.

"What happened, Yashoda?" Nanda asked in worry.

"Oh dear, I had an awful dream, “shuddered Yashoda at the thought of it. "A giant snake had coiled his enormous body around our little Krishna....and...oh my God!"

"It's just a dream, Yashoda". Nanda tried to calm his wife. But Yashoda was not pacified. "I need to see if my son is all right... Krishna! My son...where are you?" she called out.

Soon, she heard the pitter-patter of a child's footsteps outside her room. Little Krishna peeked inside.

"What is it, mother?" he asked.

"Krishna, you should not go out anywhere today, do you understand?" Yashoda said gently, without wishing to alarm her son.

Krishna lingered there for sometime. Then he smiled mysteriously. It seemed to Yashoda as if he had some designs in his mind that is beyond any mortal understanding. Then, ignoring his mother's words, he ran out of his home.

"Krishna! Kishan... my son! Come back...please."

Krishna ran fast in the streets of Brindavan and arrived at the lakeside hideout where his friends welcomed him. Then they started playing with a ball.

After some time, they became tired and climbed on a tree to rest. There was a tree house on the top of it. Krishna and his friends had specially made it for their adventures. But the tiny tree was not strong enough to support so many children and it groaned under their weight. Krishna felt bad. "I wish we had a bigger tree to build a tree house. We seem to be crushing this one!"

" I know where the biggest tree in Brindavan is," said Kusela, one of his closest friends. " I would have built a tree-house on top of it. But my father said we should never go there."
"We must!" said Krishna merrily and ran towards the eastern direction. "I want to build a better treetop hideout. And I need your help. Will you please come with me?"

Krishna was loved by all his friends, so what choice did they have than to follow him?

Soon Krishna and his friends arrived at the eastern part of the Brindavan forests. But they were shocked at what they saw there. The place looked... ghostly!

On the exterior, the place looked bright enough. The lake had plenty of water and there was even a waterfall nearby. But only when the children went near they saw the changes.

The water had a bluish colour. But the grass around the lake was not green anymore. It had turned black. There was a huge tree overlooking the lake, but it was on the verge of dying. It had no leaves and its branches were all blackened. It seemed as if the whole place was damned; cursed by some monstrous evil.There was an eerie silence all about the place.

"I do not like this place," whined one of his friends." I do not like the place" he repeated, "we should not be here at all! My father will be angry if he comes to know about it."

Krishna looked thoughtfully at the lake for some moments. Then he turned to his friends. "Well then, now that we're here, let's at least play ball!" he said and grabbed the ball. He threw it at Kusela, who was unable to catch it properly and let it slip into the lake. The ball disappeared into the waters with a soft plop.

"Let me get it," said Krishna and before his friends could stop him he jumped inside the strange waters!

Krishna went under the bluish waters of Yamuna. On the shore, his friends yelled in
terror but the boy raised his head and shouted back:

"Don't worry, I'll soon be back with the ball!"

The water felt too cold and Krishna's skin tingled uncomfortably. But he ignored the feeling.

Krishna swam lower and found the plants all burnt and bent as if they were drenched in acid. It saddened him to see the underwater plants dead and black. He looked around to find out the one responsible for it.

As his feet touched the bottom, he could see skeletons of small sea animals and fishes lying on the riverbed. An uncanny silence reigned over the whole place. It seemed to be the kingdom of Death.

Suddenly a strange sound caught Krishna's ears.It seemed like a hissing sound.

"Whoever did this is still here," thought Krishna.

As if agreeing with him, a huge snake sliding out of his sea hole. It was Kalia. It was truly terrible to see his large body slithering in the water. Baring his many hoods, he hissed again and faced the little boy.

The snake-King was surprised but also pleased to see Krishna. "Hmmm, what do we have here?" he asked mockingly.

"Food!" shouted his family in chorus, who were standing behind him.

"Yessssss..." Kalia hissed in wicked tones. "We do not get to taste humans often! And you look like a pretty morsel..."

Without finishing his words, Kalia lunged at Krishna. The boy, who had been expecting such a move, deftly jumped back and hid behind a rock. But Kalia moved at a lightning speed and caught him. He coiled round Krishna and started to crush his body. Krishna, who was rather enjoying the fight, twisted his body and slipped out.

Kalia was stunned. It was impossible. How could this mere boy slip out of his grasp so easily?. Nobody, no matter how big or small, had ever escaped from his deadly hold. For the first time in his life did Kalia ever experience such a phenomenon.

Krishna, meanwhile, jumped over the rock and crouched low. He was in a playful mood and he decided to tease the evil snake.

Had he known who his opponent is, Kalia would never have dared to try to devour Krishna. Krishna was, in reality, a divine child. He was an incarnation of the Absolute, the almighty God. He had come to the earth to reward the good and punish the wicked.

But Kalia did not know this and he was hell- bent on having Krishna as his lunch.

As the snake came around the rock to catch him, Krishna ran over to the other side. The next few minutes were spent in hide and seek until, tired, Kalia lost his patience.

"You boy! Why don't you face me like a man instead of dancing like a girl?" he snarled at Krishna.

"Oh, I haven't even started dancing yet!" laughed Krishna. "But since you are asking, let me show you how I really dance..."

Saying so, Krishna quickly climbed over the rock and jumped on the snake's enormous hood. He firmly placed his foot on the snake's sensitive head and started to dance.

And what a dance it was!

The whole lake started to tremble as Krishna danced. The lake anemones and the burnt sea plants started to shake. It seemed as if they nodded their. heads together in ecstasy over Kalia's plight. Even the fishes left alive stood still and watched him dancing over Kalia's head.

"Hey you! Stop dancing on my head, will you?" Kalia screamed out in pain.

Krishna stopped dancing and slid lower near Kalia's face. He rained blows on his head and climbed on his head to dance again.

Kalia grew truly afraid. Now he felt surely that the little boy was no ordinary child. The thud of Krishna's feet felt like the bong! Bong! Of a great hammer on his head. As Krishna danced with more and more vigour, the snake felt his life slowly being pushed out of his body.

Kalia's wives were quick to predict Kalia's fate. "Oh, divine child, please don't kill our husband!" they begged him.

"I will let him live if all of you promise to leave this place forever," answered Krishna.

"But we are so safe in here!" wailed Kalia. "If we go out now, Garuda the giant eagle would surely have us as his breakfast!"

"Go to Ramnaka, the snake-kingdom," promised Krishna. "You and your family will not be attacked by any bird or beast till you reach there. That's my promise to you.. Now off you go!!"

Meanwhille, Krishna's friends ran back to Nanda's home and informed him about Krishna's underwater search for the ball.

"He has gone under water for nearly an hour..." cried Kusela, "... and hasn't returned since."

Yashoda broke into tears." I had told him..." cried he," I had warned him not to go anywhere... why didn't he listen? Oh my Krishna, my Kanhaiya... what will I do you?"

Nanda too was very much scared. He called aloud for the other Gopalas. All the village-folk rushed and followed their chief. Soon Nanda, Yasodha and everybody from the village found themselves on the blackened woods of Yamuna.

There was no sign of the little boy, anywhere. Only a deathly silence prevailed everywhere.

"Krishna... my son. Where are you?" cried Nanda, "come out! Please!"

Suddenly the waters of the lake bubbled and rose above the tallest tree in the woods. The Gopalas moved back and all of them looked in awe and fear as Krishna came out, dancing on top of a huge snake!

The snake bent his head in respect as Krishna landed on the shore. Yasodha and Nanda rushed to embrace him.

Content with Krishna's promise, Kalia gathered his brood and left Yamuna that very day. True to what Krishna said, neither birds nor beasts attacked the snake family on their way to Ramnaka. Their journey was safe and sound.

The river regained its old richness and Krishna built his tree house on the now-green tree overlooking the lake. His status was higher
than ever in the eyes of all his friends. All the boys understood that Krishna was no ordinary child. Tale of his antics spread far and wide.

But none of them seemed to have any effect on the little god, who seemed content at stealing butter from his mother's kitchen and enjoying it. His eyes twinkled mischievously and his thoughts dwelled on things beyond the realms of human understanding.

The Asura Taraka drove all the gods from heaven. The gods went to Brahma. Brahma said to the gods: "The Asura has acquired his power through my grace. I cannot destroy him. I shall suggest to you one plan. Go to Lord Siva. He is in Yoga Samadhi. He must be tempted to unite with Parvati. A powerful son will be born unto Him. He will destroy the Asura".

Thereupon, Indra asked Cupid (Kama) to go with his wife Rati and his companion Vasanta (the spring), to Mount Kailas, the abode of Lord Siva. The three persons at once proceeded to Kailas. Spring season appeared there. All the Rishis were surprised at this. Kama stood behind a tree and shot an arrow at Siva. At this moment Parvati was worshipping Siva and offering flowers in His hand. Her hand touched the hands of Siva. Siva felt suddenly a thrill of passion and His seed came out. Siva was wondering what was it that thus distracted Him from His Yoga. He looked around and witnessed Kama behind a tree. He opened His third eye. A fire flashed and burnt Kama to ashes.

Siva’s seed was thrown into Agni (God of Fire). Agni was not able to bear it. He threw it into the Ganga. Ganga threw it into a forest of reeds where Subrahmanya, called the reed-born (Sara Janma, Saravana Bhava), was born. Subrahmanya became the commander of the Devas and destroyed the Asura as Brahma intended.
Daksha goes to attend the sacrifice of the sages who are the progenitors of the world, and not being honoured by Rudra who has come before him, Daksha reproaches Him and leaves the place. Nandisvara in his turn, curses Daksha and other Brahmins. Rudra then leaves the place of sacrifice. Sati, daughter of Daksha, known also by the name Dakshayani, requests Siva’s permission to attend her father’s sacrifice, the Brihaspati-sava, and Siva shows how inadvisable it would be.

In spite of her Lord’s advice, Sati goes to Daksha’s sacrifice. Disregarded by her father and enraged at finding no offering made to Rudra, she praises the greatness of her Lord, censures Daksha and by the Yoga method casts off her body.

Hearing of Sati’s casting off her body, Sankara creates in His anger Virabhadra out of His Jata (or matted locks) and causes Daksha’s death.

Informed by the gods of the destruction of Daksha, Brahma pacifies Rudra, and Daksha and others are revived.

Being pleased with Brahma’s praise, Siva goes along with the gods to the scene of sacrifice; Daksha and others are revived; Vishnu issuing forth from the sacrificial fire is praised by Daksha and others. After the closing ceremony of ablutions, the gods return home. Maitreya describes the benefit of listening to this story, the birth of Sati as Parvati, and that of Skanda.
This is the story of a boy named Shyam. His father had died when he was very young. He lived with his mother in a small hut near a small town.

And this is also the story of his brother- Gopal.

It was Shyam's first day at school. He woke up early, brushed his teeth and got ready. After a minute of prayer to Lord Krishna, he went to his mother to collect his lunch.

"Oh, Shyam, you're looking so nice my boy!" exclaimed his mother Jyothi. Indeed, the boy was looking fine in his bright school uniform. His mother had specially stitched for him.

"Mother, it is my first day at school. Will the other children like me?" asked Shyam hesitantly.

"Of course, they will, dear." answered Jyothi encouragingly. "Be a good boy and don't bother anybody. I've made fresh pooris (fried flour flat Breads) for your lunch. See you in the evening! God bless you!"

"Bye!" waved Shyam and walked towards his school.

Their house was located close to a forest. The new school was beyond the forests and it would take him an hour to get there. Shyam did not want to be late. So he walked faster.

The sweet melody of the birds filled the woods. Peace dwelled everywhere. Cool winds were blowing through the leaves of the trees that looked green and majestic in the skies. Shyam walked along a narrow, white road in the middle of the dense forests. He had no trouble with the bushes.

Soon the school building came to his view.

The students were assembled in the schoolyard, just getting ready for the morning's prayer. As Shyam entered the school compound, everybody looked at him. "Oh, look, it's Shyam! Widow Jyothi's son!" the children whispered to each other.

"Quiet! Quiet!" The headmaster hushed them. He called Shyam and introduced his classmates to him.

Shyam knew many of his classmates, as they all lived in the same village. But as he lived in a hut near the forests, he was not very close to the town children. Till now, he was only taught by his mother in the evenings. But now, he was going to study with children his own age. Shyam was happy to know that he was amidst them. Shyam's classmates had some inhibition in mingling with him at first. But they soon felt attracted by his friendly nature. And when Shyam shared his mother's delicious pooris with all his classmates, he soon became a good friend to them.

As the day progressed, Shyam made a good impression in the teacher's mind. As Jyothi had taught him well in basic maths and science, Shyam had no trouble in answering his questions. The teacher praised him for his sincerity and good manners.

Soon the day ended. His first day at school was over. Though the boy had some worries and felt a bit nervous in the morning, the close of the day found Shyam more confident and jubilant. He had created a good opinion about himself and had won friends at the very first day of his school life. Shyam waved goodbye to his friends and left the school. He entered the same forests he had crossed in the morning to come to school. He felt very happy that his first day at school was a success.

Darkness fell swiftly as he walked through the forests. The little boy became aware that it was eerily silent. Sunlight had stopped playing peek-a-boo with the trees. Instead, the pale light of the moon was falling hesitantly on the ground. The road looked twisted and lonely in the night. The birds had also stopped their chirping and the frogs had taken over the job. The forest did not seem peaceful or friendly any more. There was an uncanny silence everywhere.

Kwak! Kwank! Kwannkkk!

Suddenly, something hooted over his head. Shyam looked up
a tree and saw a great owl rolling its eyes at him. Frightened, Shyam tried to run fast. But he tripped over something. He fell down and turned his head in terror to see what it was! It was only a large root but Shyam's fear made it look like a huge snake to him. He screamed in terror and started to run madly. The frogs seemed to enjoy his plight and they started to scream loudly. Shyam closed his ears and ran all the way home.

"Mother! Mother!" he cried as he neared his hut. He ran into his house and closed the door, panting with fear.

"What happened, Shyam?" asked Jyothi. She became alarmed at the sight of Shyam's pale face.

"Mother, I won't walk again through the forest, I won't go to school tomorrow! There are a big snake and an owl that stares at me and the frogs shouting at me..," the scared child babbled in nameless fear.

Shyam's mother now understood that her little son had become frightened of the dark forests. She tried to pacify him but her boy remained adamant. Nothing could make him pass the forests again to go to school.

Jyothi was worried. When the town council built a new school for the village children, Jyothi was firm on sending Shyam. She had lost her husband and all her attention centered round his only child. She had great ambitions with her only son and wanted him to become a scholar. She stitched clothes and thus made a living for herself and her son. No matter how hard she had to work, she didn't mind working extra hard to provide for his education.

But now her efforts seemed to go waste. Shyam sounded too scared to go to school. Jyothi could not find any way to make Shyam see reason and besides, he was too small to see any.

Suddenly she got an idea. "Shyam, you should go to school tomorrow," she said to her son.

"But I can't walk alone in the forests, mother! I won't! I won't ," cried Shyam.

"Why would you walk alone, Shyam, when you have your brother Gopal to walk with you?" asked Jyothi brightly.

"My brother? But I don't have a brother!" replied Shyam in confusion.

"Yes, you do. His name is Gopal. He lives in the forests. Whenever you feel afraid just call his name" said Jyothi.

By thinking of his new "brother", she hoped her son would overcome his fear. Shyam never doubted his mother's words. He went to sleep happily. All his fears vanished as he dreamt about his new brother.

The next day Shyam went to his school with his old enthusiasm. And once again he found himself on the lonely road in the evening. As he walked on, Shyam grew afraid.

"Gopal, please come and walk with me!" he shouted into the darkness and waited for his brother.

Suddenly he heard a melodious tune. An older boy appeared before him, playing a flute.

Shyam looked at him in wonder. The newcomer was the most beautiful person he had ever seen in his life. His skin was dark as the sky and his eyes were kind and mischievous at the same time. A garland adorned his neck and he had a peacock feather on his crown.

"Hi Shyam," he addressed Shyam in a sweet voice. "I have come to take you home safely. Let's go!" Shyam was overjoyed. He caught hold of his brother Gopal's soft hand and walked with him till he could see his hut.

"Here's your home, Shyam," whispered Gopal and went back into the forests, Everyday, his brother Gopal walked with him till he came to the end of the forests.

One day, Shyam's schoolteacher invited his students for a feast at his home. The children started to buy gifts to give their teacher. On returning home, Shyam told his mother about the feast and asked her to give him a gift for his teacher.

Jyothi felt helpless. Without a husband, she struggled day and night to earn for their living. She considered herself fortunate in having Shyam with her, who was a loving son and helped her in all her chores. So when he asked for something, she was not able to refuse him.

As before, Jyothi used the same trick on Shyam. "Why don't you ask your brother, Shyam?"

He decided to take up her advice. That day, as he was walking in the forests with his brother, Shyam asked Gopal about a suitable gift for his teacher.

Brother Gopal thought for a moment.

"I have a bowl of curd with me, " he said. " You can give it to your teacher".

Shyam accepted his brother's offering and took it with him. On the day of the feast, he offered it to his teacher with love and affection.

The teacher knew Shyam was poor, so he tasted a big helping of curd to appreciate his gift.